Intro
In part 1 of How to Beat
the Humans as “The Thing”, we broke down what the
Thing is, broke out of the alien-thing’s ice tomb,
assimilated Griggs and Lar’s dog, and started
conspiring against the entire human race.
In this part we will continue our rampage,
and see if we can beat the humans or not.
Let’s get to
it, the thing’s intestines are itching to
strangle drunk Norwegion researchers.
They are so dead.
Body
With the Dog-Thing running off to the other
research stations, and The alien-thing
distracting all the humans who are out searching
for it, Griggs-Thing could return to the humans
acting all freaked out to blend back in.
Or. It could use this opportunity to sabotage
weapons and communications. Griggs-Thing
would have memories of the radio equipment,
who operates the radio, and the stockpiles of
flamethrowers in the shed. The guns and axes
aren’t particularly dangerous to the Thing,
but the napalm hoses are. Griggs-thing need
only use it’s memories to envision what a
flamethrower would do to a human body.
Yah, let's try to avoid that.
Puncturing holes in the tanks and cutting
fuel lines should only take a minute.
You could also light the shed on fire,
but that would bring too much attention
and suspicion to why the flamethrowers
were destroyed. Right now, none of the humans
are thinking about busting out the torch guns,
so subtly sabotaging them is the best bet.
After destroying the most dangerous weapons the
humans have, cutting the communications
out of the base is the next priority.
The humans don’t know about the thing, yet, but
if they did decide to phone home about the alien,
or they did find out about the thing
cells and relayed that information,
a bunch of men in black are going to show up
and start causing problems for the thing.
The thing might be able to use the increased foot
traffic in and out of Antarctica to it’s benefit,
but the chances of a strict quarantine,
and intensive research and experimentation
done on the soon to be alien corpse or
the sample Dr Sander took will expose
the thing, leading to its eradication.
The less alert people are, the better.
While everyone’s still out searching for the
alien, Griggs-Thing should have time to also go
spill some coffee on the radio equipment, fray
some wires, or something to destroy it.
The helicopters, snowcats, and other forms of
transportation can be left unimpaired for now.
Eventually the thing will need to leave this
research station, and hoofing it on foot in
-40 degree temps isn’t ideal, even for the thing.
Even if the humans figured out what the thing is,
they are unlikely to allow anyone to
physically leave the station because
they wouldn’t know who was actually a
thing. They can’t risk it escaping.
Some of the researchers stumble upon the
dog kennel. There’s blood everywhere. Why
would the thing leave a bloody mess after
assimilating the dog, but not Griggs. This
may have been intentional by the thing.
As far as the researchers are concerned,
the dog was killed and eaten by the bug alien.
This is actually ideal, because if or when
the humans figure out the nature of the
thing, they will realize that the dog
would be a threat and try to find and kill it.
This way, they think it’s dead and gone.
The alien-thing has still managed
to evade the humans so far,
but it’s options are dwindling.
It could try to make it back to the spaceship,
but the problem is that it doesn’t know
where it is. Griggs-thing would know,
but with the humans out looking for them, they
probably didn’t have time to stay and chat.
Even if it did know where the spaceship was,
and could transform some alien neural-bio
links to operate the spaceship, it
is obviously not flyable or else
it would have left Earth a long time ago.
The best option I could think of is to badly wound
and infect some of the humans before running off
into the night and digging itself into a hidden
ice coffin where the humans wouldn’t find it.
Wounding instead of killing the humans will cause
them to abandon the chase to provide medical
care for their friends. This distraction and
diversion of resources gives the alien-thing
the breathing room to run and hide.
It’s possible the alien-thing
won’t survive another freeze,
but the humans are going to kill it anyways. The
last thing griggs-thing and dog-thing need is for
humans to start studying it’s alien body and
putting it’s cells under the microscope.
Badly injuring the humans will also
cause them to evacuate their wounded to
a good hospital in a more populated region,
enabling the things to spread further.
Instead of doing all this strategic shit, the
alien-thing decides to nom on Henrik.
To be fair, it can be hard to think straight
when your starving corpse is thawed and
re-animated after a 100 thousand years, only to
be immediately attacked by another species. The
rest of the humans converge on it and are forced
to gun it down and burn it, seeing as how it
killed or was killing their friend.
Poor Henrik. He woke up that morning,
and could never have imagined that this
was the way his life would end.
Being pulled inside an alien bug’s stomach.
It’s digestive acids searing and breaking down his
flesh. Only able to make muffled screams
while suffocating and losing blood. Your
friends realize they can’t help you so they start
shooting at it to try to kill you and it.
None of them put you out of your misery. The fiery
stinging of bullets hitting you is just more pain
added to the agony of melting and suffocating.
Then they light it, and you, on fire.
Only then did his consciousness give out.
Maybe he died immediately though.
Despite the alien thing failing to hide it’s
body in the snow, with no comms or weapons,
griggs-thing blending in nicely, and dog
thing on it’s way to another station,
I think we’re still on track for
world domination in 27,000 hours.
Olav, who just witnessed Henrik get mauled
and digested by the alien-thing, is now in the
infirmary getting checked out by Karl, with none
other than Griggs-thing right next to them. All
Griggs-thing needs to do is touch them. Not like
some stupid finger poke, but like a pat on the
back of the head, brush against their arm, caress
his cheek slowly, ya know, something subtle.
Light touching should be a viable strategy from
everything we know. Every cell in a thing’s body
is a thing cell, each thing cell actively seeks
out non thing cells to assimilate and spread to.
One skin thing cell rubbing up against a
non thing cell should cause it to spread.
It is possible that the thing cells do take
some time to recognize non thing cells,
divide via mitosis, and attack foreign cells,
and this may take some seconds. Mitosis in humans
does take around 2 hours to complete. So just
simply brushing against them might not work,
even if the thing can perform mitosis and have one
of the daughter cells invade the foreign cells in
10-20 seconds, that would mean Griggs-Thing
would have to hold hands with Olav for an..
uncomfortable amount of time to infect him.
This is still a viable strategy for Griggs-thing
though, as all he’d need to do is the old spit
handshake. The thing cells in the saliva would
transfer to the human hand and have enough
time to start assimilating. There’s a lot
of variations to this you could use, if
you just use your sick imaginations.
You might not even need to touch them. As we are
all very aware by now, the air that exits your
mouth contains respiratory droplets, which contain
all kinds of cells from your body, including
pathogens. These droplets containing thing
cells can hang in the air and travel many feet.
Just being in the same room and talking to them
could infect them with thing cells. If he wanted
to expedite the infection process, Griggs-thing
could also just sneeze in their faces too.
Say Griggs-thing did rudely sneeze in their
faces. How would it know they were infected and
turned into things too? For that matter, how do
thing’s know who other things are in general?
Things can’t just ask other
organisms if they are things or not,
nor is it possible to visually detect other
things given they are imitating their enemy.
They could physically touch each other to
confirm, like slime molds conjoining to
communicate with each other, but that’s
also pretty impractical and overt.
My guess is it would be a form of chemical
sensing. Similar to how individual cells
communicate with neurotransmitters and hormones,
so too could things. Part of the assimilation
process’s biological alterations could be to
enhance olfactory receptor neurons in the host,
so that it can detect a distinct
odor other things give off.
This odor would be undetectable to other
organisms or humans. Similar to how a dog
might be able to sense whether a woman is
pregnant or not based on hormone production
causing them to give off a unique odor, even
though we can’t. This means that two things who
were assimilated independently of each other
could be in the same room with other humans,
realize each other are things, then go verbally
conspire against the humans elsewhere.
Griggs-thing could just grab both of them and
shove tentacles in their necks, but it’s too
risky that they would make a commotion and get
caught. While it’s cinematic and intense to use
grotesque forms to assimilate others, that’s only
necessary once you’ve been made and the victim is
trying to escape, kill you, and warn others.
The things just need to use the invasion of the
body snatchers strategy of blending in as much
as possible, and only announcing your presence
and revealing your attack form when you are
caught or have an overwhelming advantage.
While everyone’s autopsying the alien with
their sandwich gloves, breathing in all it’s
steaming innards, Griggs-thing was in the
break room pouring another cup of joe.
This may be a good opportunity to spike
the coffee pot everyone drinks out of with
a couple drops of ‘Thing’ blood. Like David
did to Dr. Holloway in Alien Prometheus.
You’d have to let the coffee
cool down a bit first,
but if the Thing had blueprints for
thermophiles like it did for cryophiles,
the thing cells could easily handle 120 degree
temperatures the coffee would be served at.
The cells in the cups would be ingested by
many of the researchers, and within minutes
they’d be thing versions of themselves. This is
an easy way to infect many people at once.
Juliette starts feeling woozy from the autopsy
and starts coughing. This is likely a natural
reaction from seeing Henrik’s corpse and not from
being assimilated. Like we talked about in part 1,
you wouldn’t know you were being assimilated.
Griggs-thing comes out of the break room,
sees Juliette alone in the hallway coughing, and
goes to console her. Griggs is such a sympathetic
soul, consoling everyone who isn’t feeling
good. Griggs-thing patting her on the back
and breathing in her direction might have been
enough to infect her, but it’s not guaranteed,
which is why he most likely followed her
into the bathroom to finish the job.
Right now Griggs-thing is pretty much taking
people out impulsively based on whoever seems
isolated enough. It’s not a terrible strategy,
but it could be better coordinated, especially
with its access to Griggs’ memories.
Griggs-thing should be targeting the people
who are most likely to and capable of
figuring out what the thing is. Whoever
is in charge of studying the alien is the
priority target, because they will be the
ones to sound the alarms. Griggs-thing would
know that Sander is an arrogant fool.
Adam is a docile follower and unlikely to
speak up without Sander’ permission.
Which leaves Kate Lloyd as the primary
skeptic researcher and target.
She’s the vertebrate paleontologist,
and a human who would understand what
she was looking at under the microscope. The
others are just geologists, climatologists,
ecologists, or other unrelated fields. Kate Lloyd
was brought in specifically for this task. I mean,
she’s not exactly qualified to research
alien life forms, but she’s the most
relevant person for the job apparently?
Really, now that I think about it, why the hell
did they hire her. It certainly wasn’t because
she would keep her mouth shut and fall in line.
There has to be way more qualified and discrete
people they could have chosen instead.
I also think it’s worth mentioning that the
things should be communicating what they
know to each other as best as possible.
Griggs-thing should tell Juliette-thing
that the dog-thing is on it’s way to another
station, that comms and weapons were sabotaged,
that it was going to try to assimilate Sam
Carter before they make it to McMurdo and that
Juliette should try to infect Kate next.
You don’t want to just infect other people
and have them all doing their own things
which might jeopardize the operation.
Gotta stay coordinated and organized.
Juliette-thing would have communicated to
Griggs-thing that when she was in the rec room,
Carter said he was taking Olav to the military
hospital in McMurdo because he developed some
form of psychological shock from the incident,
and that Carter said he was going to blow
the lid off this whole operation and tell
everyone about the alien and spaceship.
This would bring a lot of unnecessary heat and
scrutiny, which makes Carter the primary target
now. Griggs-thing was already consoling Olav, and
is clearly closer friends with him. It makes sense
for Griggs-thing to hitch a ride, stop Carter,
and further infect McMurdo station. McMurdo is
where the C17 transport out of Antarctica is too,
so this would be a way off the continent and
into the more populated areas of the Earth.
Meanwhile, Juliette-thing should immediately go to
intercept the secondary target, Kate Lloyd.
Juliette-thing apparently had better things to do,
and doesn’t intercept Kate before she examines a
blood sample of the alien-thing and discovers
it’s imitation and assimilation abilities.
Kate also finds Juliette’s fillings in the
shower. Damnit Juliette-thing. How hard is it
to clean up after yourself? You easily could have
turned the shower on and picked up your fillings.
The fuck is the point of imitating your prey if
you leave a mess of your blood, tooth fillings,
and metal implants for others to find. Not
only did you fail to intercept Kate, you left
even more evidence for her to become even more
suspicious that something foul is at play.
I don’t really get the whole, The Thing can’t
replicate inorganic material plot device.
Thing cells would simply ignore the inorganic
material and only assimilate the organic tissue.
If the thing cells perfectly replicated a host
organism’s cells, which had already adapted to
the implant or simply didn't care about things
like dental fillings, then the Thing version
shouldn’t be rejecting them either.
In the 1982 movie, Norris-Thing accidentally
replicated a heart defect, which
caused the Thing to have a genuine
heart attack, ultimately exposing it.
If the Thing replicates the host’s perfectly,
and the assimilated human needs
a metal brace to function:
Then spitting that metal brace out would
damage the host organism and expose it.
But even if the Thing organisms do reject
inorganic materials for some unknown reason, it
wouldn’t be that much of a problem if the things
simply cleaned up after themselves. Or re-pierced
their earrings if they had them. Piercings are
literally just a healed hole, it’s not like the
human body or thing would reject it again.
While Griggs-thing successfully makes it onto
the chopper, Juliette-thing decides
to assimilate Edvard in secret.
Griggs-thing could walk up to the
pilot and co-pilot and start coughing,
but he decides to stay seated for the flight to
not risk making anyone suspicious. He ‘will’ need
to take Carter out before they land though.
Kate, having discovered the nature of the thing,
runs outside and flags the chopper
down, and Carter agrees to land it.
What should griggs-thing do? He doesn’t
actually know why the chopper is landing.
Why would a vertebrate paleontologist and not
the camp leader be flagging the chopper down.
It’s possible that Juliette-thing didn’t
intercept Kate in time, and she managed
to figure out what the thing is. It’s also
very possible that it’s just nothing.
But considering Carter and Kate are by
far the biggest tattle-tale bitches on
this base and Carter was already itching
to get the word out, combined with whatever
Kate is up to, it can’t be good.
Crashing the helicopter and stopping
Carter would make all the researchers panic,
but without a functioning radio they will have
to physically go to other bases for help.
Juliette-thing could then infect whomever
is going to the other base for help, and she can
stay and further infect the Thule station.
The problem with crashing the helicopter
is that it's hovering right above the base.
There’s no guarantee that Carter would’ve
steered it into a valley miles and miles away.
If it had crashed in the station’s premises, and
everyone discovered that griggs turned into a
spaghetti monster, the jig would be up.
Landing the chopper safely and maintaining
deception might be the better decision. Edvard,
Juliette, and Griggs-thing’s could all focus fire
on Kate and Carter once back at base. Even
if Kate immediately started ranting about
the thing cells replication abilities,
nobody will believe her initially.
So there will be a window of opportunity to infect
them and others at the base. Keeping suspicions
low is probably the best move for now.
Griggs-thing instead opts for option 1 and
explodes into tentacles and starts
attacking Olav and the pilots.
Luckily Carter flies the helicopter
into a hillside miles away.
The researchers attempt to radio for
help, but Colin, the radio operator,
says it’s not working, that it might be the
storm rolling in causing interference. Ah, so
Griggs-thing did manage to sabotage it. Yah I
know in the movie it actually is a bad storm,
but I like to think it was griggs-thing
executing the plan correctly.
The researchers call an all-hands
meeting to discuss what to do,
which Kate rudely interrupts with her rants about
alien cells replicating people. Nobody seems to
believe her, nor is willing to spend 5 minutes
checking the blood sample in the lab.
Edvard and Juliette-things are just sitting in on
the convo, which must be a bit awkward for them
hearing Kate talk about them as a single cell
that replicates the body they are existing in,
which was formerly their friend.
Edvard-thing orders the team to drive a snowcat
to Halley station to retrieve Thule stations’s
helicopter which is refueling there, and asks
Colin and Lars to join him on their journey.
The radio operator was a good pick, as he won’t be
able to stay and fix the radio. If Edvard-thing
can make it to the helicopter at Halley station
and infect Lars and Colin on the way,
it will open up a lot of possibilities
for spreading to the rest of Earth.
There’s no need to bring Juliette-thing,
she should stay and infect the others at the
base. Starting with Kate. It’s only a matter
of time before she comes up with hard evidence
and a way to kill the things. She has to go. The
rest will fall easily after that.
Juliette needs to isolate Kate first,
which you would think would be difficult
considering Kate should be extremely cautious
about social distancing when 1 thing cell could
kill her. But Kate doesn’t seem to care.
Juliette-thing uses her memories of where
the snowcat keys are to suggest to Kate that
they should hide the keys. It’s a perfect
proposal, because the key room is isolated
and she wouldn’t suspect that the thing would
propose cutting off travel out of the base.
What Kate doesn’t understand is that the thing
doesn’t need to leave the base right now,
it can just assimilate everyone here
then leave at it’s leisure.
Juliette-thing finally isolates
Kate, the primary target,
and instead of just shanking her with
a knife covered in your own blood,
it opts to needlessly transform into
a giant mouth with a tentacle.
Very sophisticated attack form ya got there,
I'm sure a lot of thought went into its design.
The transformation process is also painfully slow,
and gives Kate every opportunity to run.
Juliette-thing just blew everything for the
things. Juliette was a bad human to assimilate,
as imitating her meant imitating a
brain structure that was unintelligent.
She didn’t clean up after herself in the
bathroom, didn’t intercept Kate in time,
and then when she finally had the opportunity
to kill Kate she botched the whole thing and
gave the humans all the evidence they needed to
become aware of the threat and fight back.
She manages to only kill the lowest
threat human in the entire group,
Karl, before getting torched
by the flamethrowers.
Well, I guess Griggs-thing didn’t sabotage
the weapons after all. In a last ditch effort,
Juliette-thing remembers the kitchen has
extinguishers and uses them to put the fire
out. But it’s no match for their flamethrowers
that have an unlimited fuel supply.
Karl might be able to turn into a thing too,
but Juliette-thing massively damaged him,
and the humans will burn him before he can heal.
There’s actually a deleted scene
where he did heal and ran off.
Edvard-thing has to be pissed that Juliette-thing
didn’t wait a few minutes so he could have escaped
with Colin and Lars. Now he’s stuck here
with everyone agreeing to a quarantine.
There should still be a flamethrower
in the shed though. He could grab it
and just roast everyone. The thing has the
element of surprise, and the other humans
would hesitate to kill who they think is their
friend. The time for covert assimilation is up,
the thing just needs to use the
human’s weapons against them right now.
After burning them all to a crisp, he’d be
free to leave and infect the world.
Kate proposes a blood test to verify who is
human. Sander and Adam agree to go set up the
test while everyone else goes to sabotage
all transportation out of the station.
Edvard-thing got really lucky that everyone
was stupid enough to split up like this.
He needs to find something to
light the lab on fire with.
While perusing the base for flammables, he runs
into Kate and Lars acting shady in a shed.
On Kate, Lars, and Edvard-thing’s
way back to camp, they see Jameson
and Carter arrive out of the blizzard.
Juliette-thing, while dumb and reckless, should
have debriefed Edvard-thing that Griggs-thing
was on the chopper when it crashed. Griggs-thing
obviously didn’t make it, but Jameson and Carter
might have been infected. There’s no way to tell,
as sniffing out their sweet sweet thing
pheromones isn’t possible in this blizzard.
This could be another ploy to divert
suspicion away from himself, but this
could also be to eliminate what it thinks
are likely just other human threats.
Jameson and Carter showing up right now is perfect
timing, even better that Kate and Lars split up to
go imprison them until the test is ready.
Edvard-thing can use this distraction to sabotage
the lab by getting some gas and flares,
waiting for Adam and Dr. Sander to leave,
then lighting it on fire.